# ATMOS## Transfer to EOSTransfering ATMOS to EOS will be conducted via a swap. ATMOS holders will their ATMOS on a platform provided by the Novusphere team and then withdraw (EOS-token based) ATMOS to an EOS address. Once the swap begins, we will record the total number of circulating ATMOS on the temporary blockchain. ATMOS on the EOS blockchain will be distributed proportionately to the recorded circulating supply. Once the total fixed supply has been issued on EOS or 1 year has passed (8/19/2019), the swap will be discontinued and any outstanding (EOS-token) ATMOS will be burned. Since staking will still continue on the temporary blockchain, this may leave a small amount (<0.01%) of ATMOS unswappable.## ATMOS (eosio.token)ATMOS will be an `eosio.token` (standard) based token. This will mean ATMOS will be compliant with native EOS decentralized exchanges, and easily compliant with centralized exchanges.Fixed Supply: 100,000,000 ATMOS## ATMOSD (non-standard token)ATMOSD will be a non-standard EOS token implemented as a Novusphere dapp through a plugin to the `novusphere-db` software. ATMOSD will be used to provide anonymity to ATMOS holders. Since ATMOSD is a non-standard it will not be immediately available on native EOS decentralized exchanges.**Note:** Since ATMOSD in circulation represents ATMOS 1:1, the circulating supply of `ATMOSD+ATMOS` will never exceed the fixed supply of ATMOS.### Broadcasters ("Mining" / "Mining Pools")ATMOSD transactions can be broadcast to the EOS blockchain by any EOS account holder provided they have enough CPU/NET resources to do so. Once a transaction has been created and signed, anyone with an EOS account can broadcast it. A broadcaster may choose to enforce a fee (sat/b) paid in ATMOSD.Broadcasters may consider paying EOS accounts who delegate bandwidth (CPU/NET) to them a portion of the fees, similar to how mining pools pays those who delegate hash rate to them.### Phase 1ATMOSD will use arbitrary key generation to provide pseudo-anonymity.### Phase 2ATMOSD will utilize Ring Confidential Transactions to provide a high level of anonymity.### Phase 2.1ATMOSD will be optimized through the use of bullet proofs.## Swapping between ATMOS and ATMOSDA swap service between ATMOS and ATMOSD will be provided by the Novusphere team. A fee of 0.01% will be taken for each swap, half of which will be permanently burned.