<pre>Title: eos-forumAuthor: asphyxia@novusphere.ioContributors: Novusphere Discord CommunityUpdated: 7/18/2018</pre># AbstractThis document looks to outline a Reddit style forum system build on the EOS blockchain utilizing the ATMOS token.# RationaleReddit and social media are prone to censorship. A forum built using novusphere-db is trustless and cannot be censored. Anyone can reconstruct the forum database locally by analyzing the EOS blockchain and the interface can be ran entirely local through the use of a local database and interface.# AnonymityUsers can freely post every 3 minutes in the `anon` sub from the `eosforumanon` account. This account's (renewable) resources will be paid for by the Novusphere team.Users can also stake their atmos, and with **[TBD]** atmos staked, they will be able to post in any sub from the `eosforumanon` account. A signed message will automatically be provided to the eos-service anonymity provider for authentication when posting outside of the anon sub.# Voting Scheme### UpvotingEvery user can freely upvote a post for 1 point. **[TBD]** ATMOS can be paid to upvote a post for 1 point. [TBD]% of those ATMOS will go to the person being upvoted, and the remainder will be burned. This is done to prevent circular upvoting abuse.### Score FormulaPosts will be scored using the formula:`(p)/(T+2)^G`- `p` is the net points of the post- `T` is the time since the post has been made in hours- `G` is the constant 1.8# Spam Prevention### EOS's CPU/BandwidthThe natural resources of EOS constrain how often a user can post.### Ignore/Blocked ListCreate a list of blocked users stored in local storage (client side) and avoid showing posts by these users. Effectively, this is self-moderation.### Proxy ModerationOpt-in to someone else's ignore/blocked list that they have made public. This would allow you to elect moderators you trust, instead of moderators who may be abusing their position of power. A clear example of this is the contentious moderation of the Reddit sub **r/Bitcoin**. Should you stop trusting someone you have elected as moderator, opt-out of their ignore list.### VotingAn upvote/downvote system allows the community to self-police itself in terms of what content is valuable and should be seen.