<pre>Title: Judges and BountiesAuthor: asphyxia@novusphere.ioContributors: Unicron Primus#7858 (Discord), TheHiveMind#8392 (Discord), benji#3602 (Discord)Status: DraftUpdated: 5/26/2018</pre># AbstractThis document looks to outline a fair judge-bounty system in which a requestor can ask for something to be done and have some participant in the network fulfill that task for a bounty payment. Such a task could be, but is not limited to adding content to Novusphere. As long as a bounty-hunter can prove that the task has been completed and by them the system, then such a bounty can be proposed.# RationaleJudges act as a jury to help solve disputes between requestors and bounty-hunters. A judge is motivated to vote honestly as he does not know how the other judges will vote and can risk losing their job if they act out of malicious intent.Ideally, most bounties will be resolved without arbitration. A bounty-hunter cannot abuse the system as they risk losing their collateral.# SpecificationA requestor Bob wants some task performed. Bob creates a bounty with a description of what he wants a bounty-hunter to do for him and a fixed time frame of which request will expire. When Bob creates this bounty he places some amount of funds `F` into a contract involving himself, judges and potential bounty-hunters. Bob asks for a picture of a cat.  The following events then happen sequentially: - Alice submits to the task a picture of a dog.- Eve submits a picture of a ferocious lion.- Joe submits a picture of a cute kitten.Bob selects Joe as the recipient of the bounty, as what Bob really wanted was cute cat pictures, not just cat pictures. Since Bob has selected a bounty recipient, the contract now enters into an arbitration state of which there is some pre-determined amount of time in which disputes may be raised. This state can also be entered if there is at least one submission for the bounty but the bounty hunter was not selected by the requestor.Eve isn’t happy with Bob’s decision. She submitted a picture of a lion which is technically a cat and she did so before Joe! Even though Joe did what Bob wanted but not accurately articulated, Eve met the specification of the contract and did so before Joe. Since the contract is in arbitration, Eve is able to raise a dispute. To do so, Eve must put forth a collateral  `P% * F` so that the judges' time is not wasted.Eve makes the case that Bob simply asked for a cat picture, and a lion is a cat. She submitted the picture before Joe as verified by the blockchain and is therefore rightfully entitled to the bounty. Judges must then vote whether Eve is in the right or not. If the judges vote in favor of Eve, Eve will receive `F * (100-P)%` as her reward. If judges do not side with Eve, then Eve receives nothing. If multiple people (i.e. Sally and Dave) then possible choices become- Bob’s choice- Sally- Dave- EveSally, Dave and Eve all pay the same amount collateral to open disputes, but once the case has been settled, the cost `P% * F` will be split equally among the 3 rather than the judges receiving `3(P% * F)`Regardless of the outcome, judges who participated in the case who voted with the majority receives the same compensation. This is to ensure there is not financial motivation to lie. Without financial motivation to lie, judges should vote fairly to the best of their ability or risk losing their position as a judge.The vote concludes and judges choose to override Bob’s decision and award the bounty to Eve. In the event of a tie via arbitration, the bounty will go toward the requestor’s choice. If no choice was made and the contract expired, the bounty will be split among the tied bounty-hunters.If no disputes were raised when the arbitration period has ended and no recipient of the bounty has been chosen, funds are returned to the requestor (Bob). Otherwise if the requestor has chosen recipient the full amount will be awarded to them (Joe).**Be specific when creating bounties!**## Arbitration Process### Phase 1Judges who have accepted the case make a commitment in the form of `H(pubKey+vote+caseId)`### Phase 2Judges reveal their actual vote. Judges who made a commitment in phase 1 but did not reveal it in phase 2 are punished. Judges who voted with the minority and not the majority are punished.Consider the following scenarios:- A:3, B:1, C:1 - Minority tie is punished (those who voted B, C)- A:2, B:2, C:1 - Minority is punished (those who voted C)- A:1, B:1, C:1 - Nobody is punished (minority is also majority)Ties are settled based on the number of votes, followed by the time ordering of the bounty-hunter's submission.Consider the following scenarios:- A:1, B:2, C:2, D:0, E:0, X:0 - B would receive the bounty- A:1, B:1, C:1, D:1, E:1, X:0 - A would receive the bounty## Validating Content as a JudgeJudges should not trust the content of links that can be possibly tampered with. For example, a bounty-hunter as part of their submission may include a link `https://mysite.com/file.png`. Unless `mysite.com` is a well known site, then it is possible the bounty-hunter has tampered with the content at that URL after the requestor has selected a recipient. This could result in judges seeing a different file/content than the requestor saw. In the case of IPFS based hashes or links we know content hasn't been modified since the hash is a result of the file content.## Requirements to be a JudgeTBD.## PunishmentTBD.